Water cycle, also called hydrologic cycle, cycle that involves the continuous circulation of water in the Earth-atmosphere system. Of the many processes involved in the water cycle, the most important are evaporation, transpiration, condensation, precipitation, and runoff. Although the total amount of water within the cycle remains essentially constant, its distribution among the various processes is continually changing.
Diagram of the Water Cycle
A brief treatment of the water cycle follows.
Evaporation, one of the major processes in the cycle, is the transfer of water from the surface of the E
Water cycle, also called hydrologic cycle, cycle that involves the continuous circulation of water in the Earth-atmosphere system. Of the many processes involved in the water cycle, the most important are evaporation, transpiration, condensation, precipitation, and runoff. Although the total amount of water within the cycle remains essentially constant, its distribution among the various processes is continually changing.
Diagram of the Water Cycle
A brief treatment of the water cycle follows.
Evaporation, one of the major processes in the cycle, is the transfer of water from the surface of the Earth to the atmosphere. By evaporation, water in the liquid state is transferred to the gaseous, or vapour, state. This transfer occurs when some molecules in a water mass have attained sufficient kinetic energy to eject themselves from the water surface. The main factors affecting evaporation are temperature, humidity, wind speed, and solar radiation. The direct measurement of evaporation, though desirable, is difficult and possible only at point locations. The principal source of water vapour is the oceans, but evaporation also occurs in soils, snow, and ice. Evaporation from snow and ice, the direct conversion from solid to vapour, is known as sublimation.
Transpiration is the evaporation of water through minute pores, or stomata, in the leaves of plants. For practical purposes, transpiration and the evaporation from all water, soils, snow, ice, vegetation, and other surfaces are lumped together and called evapotranspiration, or total evaporation.
Water vapour is the primary form of atmospheric moisture. Although its storage in the atmosphere is comparatively small, water vapour is extremely important in forming the moisture supply for dew, frost, fog, clouds, and precipitation. Practically all water vapour in the atmosphere is confined to the troposphere (the region below 6 to 8 miles [10 to 13 km] altitude).
The transition process from the vapour state to the liquid state is called Condensation. Condensation may take place as soon as the air contains more water vapour than it can receive from a free water surface through evaporation at the prevailing temperature. This condition occurs as the consequence of either cooling or the mixing of air masses of different temperatures. By condensation, water vapour in the atmosphere is released to form precipitation.
Precipitation that falls to the Earth is distributed in four main ways: some is returned to the atmosphere by evaporation, some may be intercepted by vegetation and then evaporated from the surface of leaves, some percolates into the soil by infiltration, and the remainder flows directly as surface runoff into the sea. Some of the infiltrated precipitation may later percolat into streams as ground water runoff. Direct measurement of runoff is made by stream gauges and plotted against time on hydrographs.
Most groundwater is derived from precipitation that has percolatedthrough the soil. Groundwater flow rates, compared with those of surface water, are very slow and variable, ranging from a few millimetres to a few metres a day. Groundwater movement is studied by tracer techniques and remote sensing.
Ice also plays a role in the water cycle. Ice and snow on the Earth’s surface occur in various forms such as frost, sea ice, and glacier ice. When soil moisture freezes, ice also occurs beneath the Earth’s surface, forming permafrost in tundra climates. About 18,000 years ago glaciers and ice caps covered approximately one-third of the Earth’s land surface. Today about 12 percent of the land surface remains covered by ice masses.
￼
In, cycle of water there is five major processes work together to keep Earth's water moving in a cycle.The five processes at work in the hydrologic cycle. These are condensation, precipitation, infiltration, runoff, and evapotranspiration. These occur simultaneously an except for precipitation, continuously.These five processes are as follows- condensation, precipitation, infiltration, runoff, and evapotranspiration- together make up the Hydrologic Cycle of water. Water vapor condenses to form clouds, which result in precipitation when the conditions are suitable mode. Precipitation falls to 
￼
In, cycle of water there is five major processes work together to keep Earth's water moving in a cycle.The five processes at work in the hydrologic cycle. These are condensation, precipitation, infiltration, runoff, and evapotranspiration. These occur simultaneously an except for precipitation, continuously.These five processes are as follows- condensation, precipitation, infiltration, runoff, and evapotranspiration- together make up the Hydrologic Cycle of water. Water vapor condenses to form clouds, which result in precipitation when the conditions are suitable mode. Precipitation falls to the surface and infiltrates in the soil or flows to the back to ocean as runoff. Surface water (e.g., lakes, streams, oceans, etc.), evaporates, returning moisture to the atmosphere, while plants return water to the atmosphere by the process of the transpiration.
Condensation is the process of water changing from a vapor to a liquid form. Water vapor in the air rises mostly by convection process. This means that warm, humid air will rise, while cooler the air will flow downward. As the warmer air rises, the water vapor will lost energy, causing its temperature to drop down. The water vapour state change into liquid or ice.Warm air are rises, cool air condensing into clouds.You can see condensation in action whenever you drink a cold soda from the refrigerator and set it in a room temperature. Notice, How the outside surround of the soda can "sweats?" The water doesn't came from inside the can, it comes from the water vapour into air. As the air cools then water droplets form.
Precipitation water is released from clouds as rain, sleet, snow, or hail. Precipitation start after water vapour, which has condensed into the atmosphere, becomes too heavy to remained in atmospheric air currents and falls. Under some circumstance precipitation actually evaporates before it reaches to surface. Moreover, though precipitation reaches to Earth's surface and meet to the surface water in streams and lakes or infiltrating soil to become groundwater. A portion of the precipitation that reach the Earth's surface seeped into the ground through process called infiltration. Amount of water that infiltrates the soil varies with the degree of land slope, the amount and type of vegetates, soil type and rock type and whether that soil is already saturated by water. The much openings in the surface (cracks, pores, joints), the more infiltration occur. Water is doesn't infiltrate the soil flows on the surface as runoff. A portion of the precipitation that reaches the Earth's surface seeped into the ground the process called infiltration. Precipitation reaches surface of the Earth but doesn't infiltrate the soil is called runoff. Runoff can also come from melted snow and ice.When there is a lot of amount precipitation, soils become saturated with water. Additional rainfall can no longer enter into it. Runoff will eventually drain into creeks, streams, and rivers, adding a large amount of water to the flows. Surface water always travels towards the lowest point possible, usually the seas. Along the way some water evaporates, percolates into the ground is used for agricultural, residential, or industrial purposes.
Evapotranspiration is water evaporating from the ground and transpiration by plants through respiration . Evapotranspiration is the way water vapor re-enters the atmosphere. Evaporation occurs when radiant energy from the sun heats water causing the water molecules to become so active that some rises into the atmosphere as vapour.
Transpiration occurs when plants take in water through the their roots and release it through the leaves process that can clean water by removing contaminants and pollution outside .
The water cycle describes the continuous movement of water on, above and below the surface of the Earth. The mass of water on Earth remains fairly constant over time but the partitioning of the water into the major reservoirs of ice, fresh water, saline water and atmospheric water is variable depending on a wide range of climatic variables. The water moves from one reservoir to another, such as from river to ocean, or from the ocean to the atmosphere, by the physical processes of evaporation, condensation, precipitation, infiltration, surface runoff, and subsurface flow. In doing so, the water
The water cycle describes the continuous movement of water on, above and below the surface of the Earth. The mass of water on Earth remains fairly constant over time but the partitioning of the water into the major reservoirs of ice, fresh water, saline water and atmospheric water is variable depending on a wide range of climatic variables. The water moves from one reservoir to another, such as from river to ocean, or from the ocean to the atmosphere, by the physical processes of evaporation, condensation, precipitation, infiltration, surface runoff, and subsurface flow. In doing so, the water goes through different forms: liquid, solid (ice) and vapor.
The water cycle is like a life cycle for water. It involves collected water, such as in an ocean, evaporating. Also, water evaporates out of plants into the air through stomata. This is called transpiration. The water in the air is a gas, now called water vapour. Because the sky gets colder as you go up, the water vapour cools to the dew point and condenses, returning to a liquid state. The condensed water forms clouds. When the clouds get too heavy, rain begins to fall. This is called precipitation. When the precipitation hits the ground, it can do one of two things. It can infiltrate, or be 
The water cycle is like a life cycle for water. It involves collected water, such as in an ocean, evaporating. Also, water evaporates out of plants into the air through stomata. This is called transpiration. The water in the air is a gas, now called water vapour. Because the sky gets colder as you go up, the water vapour cools to the dew point and condenses, returning to a liquid state. The condensed water forms clouds. When the clouds get too heavy, rain begins to fall. This is called precipitation. When the precipitation hits the ground, it can do one of two things. It can infiltrate, or be absorbed into the ground. Or it can become runoff, which is the moving water after a rainfall. Then the runoff can join a river to be a part of a collected body of water, which starts the water cycle over again.
Earth is a truly unique in its abundance of water. Water is necessary to sustaining life on Earth, and helps tie together the Earth's lands, oceans, and atmosphere into an integrated system. Precipitation, evaporation, freezing and melting and condensation are all part of the hydrological cycle - a never-ending global process of water circulation from clouds to land, to the ocean, and back to the clouds. This cycling of water is intimately linked with energy exchanges among the atmosphere, ocean, and land that determine the Earth's climate and cause much of natural climate variability. The imp
Earth is a truly unique in its abundance of water. Water is necessary to sustaining life on Earth, and helps tie together the Earth's lands, oceans, and atmosphere into an integrated system. Precipitation, evaporation, freezing and melting and condensation are all part of the hydrological cycle - a never-ending global process of water circulation from clouds to land, to the ocean, and back to the clouds. This cycling of water is intimately linked with energy exchanges among the atmosphere, ocean, and land that determine the Earth's climate and cause much of natural climate variability. The impacts of climate change and variability on the quality of human life occur primarily through changes in the water cycle. As stated in the National Research Council's report on Research Pathways for the Next Decade (NRC, 1999): "Water is at the heart of both the causes and effects of climate change."
Source from: https://docsbay.net/water-cycle
Not sure if these are the ones you're after:
Evaporation — water to water vapor
Condensation— water vapor to water
Precipitation — condensed water falling as rain or snow
Infiltration — water soaks into the soil (some may form runoff instead)
Transportation— by rivers to the ocean from where it starts again.
You also have lots of shortcuts like evapotranspiration from soil water through plants to water vapor.
The way that water moves all around the earth as it changes it's state is called water cycle. Water in oceans and rivers evaporates and becomes water vapour. As water vapour rises in the air, it cools and condenses into tiny droplets. These tiny droplets accumulate and form clouds. Large water droplets fall back to the earth as rainfall. Water from the rainfall either is absorbed into the ground or runs off into rivers. Water absorbed into ground becomes ground water. Water that runs off into rivers flows to sea where it evaporates back into the air.
In geography water cycles are the movement of water from the ocean (by evaporation) to the land and via precipitation and transport back to the ocean. Smaller cycles can occur when water evaporates from lakes, vegetation etc.
water cycle is the process when the sea water evaporates and goes up..the evaporated water then condenses and form clouds, these clouds contain water..the water comes down in the form of rain and the level of the sea rises again..this is known as water cycle where d water goes up nd again comes down in the form of rain
The water cycle describes how waterevaporates from the surface of the earth, rises into the atmosphere, cools and condenses into rain or snow in clouds, and falls again to the surface as precipitation.
..
The continuous movement of water to ground to the atmosphere and then back to the ground as rain is called water cycle
This is a simplified version for elementary school children :D
